The first thing that we're
gonna talk about is modules.
Now, modules is a slightly over loaded
term in the context of Angular,
because what am I talking
about when I say module?
Well, you have two flavors
of a module within Angular.
And they do slightly different things.
So at a language level,
we're talking about ES6 modules.
And so we use this to provide
organization at the language level.
And all this does is
provides a container for
us to export one thing so
that we can import it in to another.
So In this case, you can see here that
we are importing component on a knit,
as well as like an item
service in an item.
So this is a way for
us to kind of package things up.
At a language level,
so when it's compiled,
it's available it knows where to find
it and then make that available.
So you can see here We're
importing ,essentially
ES6 modules that have been exported for
consumption.
Now when I say module,
I could be talking about Ngmodule and
this provides organization
at a framework level.
And so this allows us to tell
Angular how to configure itself so
that it knows what exists and
how it needs to fit together.
And so, we use declarations
to define anything that
basically the user is going to see.
So if you have a component,
you declare that.
Import, so if you need to import
another Ngmodule providers.
If you need to export something
to make it available,
as well as in your top level module, you
have a bootstrap property that you define
the top level component
that's going to be Bootstrap.
So what this looks like is
essentially an object that just has,
I think of it as a manifest that
here's what we want to import.
So these are the modules we're importing.
Here's the components
that we're declaring.
Here's the providers
that we want to consume.
And then we're going to
bootstrap on the app component.
And then from here, at the very highest
level when we're spinning this up.
Then we're telling Angular to go ahead and
bootstrap the app module.
And so Angular is organized in
this hierarchical kind of tree
shaped component hierarchy in
that you have like your top,
like your root module which
is the entry point and
then everything else
kind of sits under that.
And what this allows us to do and
I'm getting a little ahead of myself but
I can't help myself is that by
having this tree shaped hierarchy,
is that it works really well for
unidirectional data flow that you can
have something defined at the top.
And then it just kind of flows down
the tree and then if something happens,
that event is then
propagated back up the tree.
So we can think of modules is really
nothing more than a logical grouping or
a division mechanism to divide and
segment pieces of our application.
So I currently am in
the Phoenix metro area.
And when I picked up John
from the airport yesterday,
we drove through approximately
I want to say 5 or
6 kind of towns that exist
within Phoenix Metro.
So I think of,
when you look at a typology of,
let's say Phoenix or
even Minneapolis or these Metro areas,
metropolitan areas is that
they are segmented into these
smaller kind of independent
towns that are all connected.
And so if those are modules,
then routes would be essentially
the streets or the highways,
the byways, and so on.
That allows us to move or
navigate from one module to the other.
And this is in its simplest form,
you're simply defining a path for
the URL that is then.
Once that pattern has been or that path
has been matched via pattern matching
then it pulls in and says I'm going to
load this component as a result of that.
So if I go to a courses route,
then we can define the courses component
that gets loaded into the router outlet.
So they're loaded into a router-outlet.
And then we have a very convenient
mechanism called routerLink
that we can use then to
navigate to other routes.
This is something I don't
think about a lot, but it is,
especially with single page applications.
It's relevant that the router
uses history.pushState,
which means that when you
generate an application,
there's a base-ref tag in the index.html
that says like this is the route.
And typically, I don't touch it.
It's just there it works.
But this allows you to essentially use
like the back button, in the forward
button and navigate between the routes,
which at one point, believe it or not was
a problem with single page applications is
that you are not actually leaving a page.
And so how do we actually
create kind of canonical URLs
to link into certain parts of it?
Where I've used this,
is I have had an Angular application
that was hosted at a sub-directory
that was not the root of the domain.
And so we had to go in and
just update that to say hey,
we're not at four slash route.
We're actually in this directory over here
as not to kind of mess everything up.
And so
this is what a routing table looks like.
It's just an array of Route objects, or a.
Yep.
So it's an array of Route objects
that has a path and a component.
And there's a few other things you
can do in here, is one can activate.
So let's say you want to protect
certain certain routes is that
you can use can activate that will call
a guard, which we'll look at later,
that based on some kind of predetermined
logic that will just say true or false.
No, can you stay can you go.
If you go there'll be trouble.
But if you stay there's gonna be double.
And so
you can essentially guard your routes
using a simple function
that returns true or false.
If true,
you can go if false met your route.
Or the other thing you can
do is lazy load a module.
And so you can say I wanna go to this
route, but I'm going to load in a module
that then contains components and
we're going to do it that way.
So this what this does is it
reduces kind of the initial load
to where you might load
one module up front and
then individual modules as you
navigate through the application.
And then last but not least,
you'll see that we have
a wildcard here at the bottom.
And that's just it's a path.
It's the double Asterix.
So it's saying if we match
these are nothing matches.
Go ahead and
just redirect this back to home.
Now, this is a pro tip.
I don't have this in the slides,
but I have been bit by this and
so even if I'm in a hurry
sometimes I will mess this up.
But, the routing table is
evaluated from top to bottom.
And so there's a reason why you want your
wildcard at the bottom and not at the top.
So I've had it where I've had a very
general route in front of a very specific
route.
And I'm like, why can't I navigate to
this thing was because I was firing
a route previous to that.
So the order that you declare your
routes in the routing table or
that array does matter.
And so it's as simple as like,
okay, I just need to move this up.
And so if you're trying to navigate to
like a sub route with like a parameter,
that is something to just keep in mind.
And you can see here that,
we're just using routerLink
to link to link.path,
whatever that is on this object.
And there's even a trigger to say,
are we on this active link and
if it is, and so it's just detecting
like what route are we on?
And if it's active attached
this active class.
So this is really nice when you
want to attach a specific style to
let's say a button,
to indicate that this is the current
place that you are in the application.
And then at the bottom,
you have your router-outlet.
And so this is where Angular is
dynamically saying we have a route match
to state this component and
put it in here.
So the question is, is what would be
the point of having inactive state?
And this is typically for,
if you want to style,
you wanna attach like a CSS class to
let's say you have a row of buttons.
Like let's say home courses,
users, whatever.
And if you're on the courses route,
you wanna indicate like this is
the currently selected route.
So you might wanna maybe make that
button just a little bit darker or
possibly even disable it.
So all it's doing is it's just detecting,
if this is matched to the route
that's defined by the routerLink,
we're going to go ahead and
attach whatever class you define for it.
And so this is where, again,
for stylistic reasons,
you might want to just visually
style that a little bit differently.
So, the question is why do you
need to import modules twice?
I believe, so one for
ES6 and one for Ngmodule.
And the distinction that I
wanna make there is that,
you're using ES6 at the language level.
So when you're writing your code and
it compiles that by using Typescript and
ES6, this is how the compiler knows
that these things go together.
And this is available.
So this is ES6 modules are purely for
compilation and language level purposes.
On the other hand, Ngmodules,
which are not at the language level
they're at the framework level.
These tell Angular specifically
how to wire itself together.
And so one is a language which is ES6.
And then on top of that, you have
Ngmodule which then tells Angular like,
okay, in order for this to run,
you have these dependencies and
you have these particular
components that we need to declare,
as well as,
let me go one module over here.
So you'll notice even in the My routes,
it's recommended that you actually
segment that into a standalone module.
And you'll see here that
in the imports line so,
I believe it's four lines from the bottom,
is I am importing my routes into this
module so it can be wired up by Angular.
But I'm doing this by calling a method.
And so I'm saying I want to attach
these routes to essentially
the root injector and make this available.
And so this is specific to Angular when
you see something like some module for
route or for
child that is specifically for Angular and
how it assembles itself at
runtime in order for it to work.
So they,
they're similar in terms of terminology,
it's a bit overloaded, but
they do two totally separate things.
So language level organization,
framework level organization.
So the question is, what type of
route would somebody lazy load?
And the answer to that is possibly a route
that does not get a lot of traffic.
So when you don't lazy load
your routes that everything
gets compiled into like one
bundle that gets deployed.
That makes the initial
payload a lot bigger.
So let's say 80% of your application
traffic is within one or two modules.
So you might wanna load those up front
to allow for a quicker load time.
But then let's say once in a while,
somebody actually does go and
read your terms and
conditions on your website.
So that's actually a great one,
is let's say if you have some terms and
conditions or something that most
people are not going to go to,
but they need to be able to.
And so you would load that lazily.
So it's essentially on demand versus
we're just gonna load everything up front
preemptively.